# Plugin `sap.commerce.build`

The goal for this plugin is to automate the most common steps when setting up a SAP Commerce development 
environment and  allows you to call the platform ant build as a Gradle task (in your script, or from
the command line).

## Configuration

The following example shows the full Domain Specific Language (DSL) with all default options and 
pre-configured dependencies.

```gradle
hybris {
    //SAP Commerce version to use
    version = "2205.0"
    
    //What files should be deleted when cleaning up the platform?
    cleanGlob = "glob:**hybris/bin/{ext-**,platform**}"
    
    //What should be unpacked from the platform zip files?
    bootstrapInclude = [
      "hybris/**"
    ]
    
    //What should excluded when unpacking?
    //  The default value is a npm package folder that includes UTF-8 filenames,
    //  which lead to problems on linux
    bootstrapExclude = [
      "hybris/bin/ext-content/npmancillary/resources/npm/node_modules/http-server/node_modules/ecstatic/test/**"
    ]
   
   //Default task dependencies for all tasks generated by the hybris ant rule
   antTaskDependencies = []
}

dependencies {
    //SAP Commerce Platform Dependencies.
    //  Define zip file dependencies that are unpacked into the project root folder.
    //  You can define more than one zip file to unpack.
    //  `bootstrapInclude` and `bootstrapExclude` define what is unpacked.
    hybrisPlatform "de.hybris.platform:hybris-commerce-suite:${hybris.version.get()}@zip"
    
    //JDBC Drivers. 
    //  Automatically downloaded and configured during bootstrap, if a dependency is configured.
    //  The plugin does not provide defaults!
    dbDriver <NO DEFAULT>
}
```

## Tasks

The plugin defines the following tasks

### `bootstrapPlatform`

Bootstraps the configured platform version with the configured DB drivers.

This means the following:

1. **if there is a version mismatch** between the version defined in the `build.gradle` and the version present
   in `hybris/bin/platform/build.number`:
   clean the hybris artifacts from the project directory using `hybris.cleanGlob`
1. Unpack all zip files defined for the `hybrisPlatform` dependency using `hybris.bootstrapInclude`
   and `hybris.bootstrapExclude` to limit the files.
1. Download all `dbDriver` dependencies into `hybris/bin/platform/lib/dbdriver`
1. Touch `hybris/bin/platform/lib/dbdriver/.lastupdate`
   (this stops the platform build from running maven to fetch drivers)

The plugin uses the following default artifact coordinates to resolve the platform zip:

groupId: `de.hybris.platform` \
artifactId: `hybris-commerce-suite` \
versionId: `${hybris.version}` \
type: `zip`

You can override this default with the `hybrisPlatform` dependency in your Gradle build script.

### `cleanPlatform`

Deletes the hybris platform folders (all files/folders matching `hybris.cleanGlob`)

[What is a Glob?](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/fileOps.html#glob)

### `createDefaultConfig`

Launches hybris build to create the standard developer config folder, if no config folder is present

### `removeUnusedExtensions`

Removes all extensions that are not used by the current project (either directly or indirectly). This helps developers
save disk space if they juggle multiple projects.

Custom extensions (i.e. extensions in `hybris/bin/custom`) are never removed

To get the full platform back, bootstrap it from scratch (`gradle cleanPlatform bootstrapPlatform`)

## Task Types

The plugin defines a custom task type you can use in your build script to interact with the normal hybris build

### `mpern.sap.commerce.build.tasks.HybrisAntTask`

This task type allows you to define a hybris ant target as Gradle task.

Under the hood it's a pre-configured `JavaExec` task

**Added in 3.7.0:** Lazy configuration of `antProperties` plus `fallbackAntProperties` for fallbacks
if something is not configured during a particular Gradle run.

#### Example:

```gradle
task unitTests(type: mpern.sap.commerce.build.tasks.HybrisAntTask) {
    //provide ant target name as argument
    args("unittests")
    
    //everything you define with -D... when calling ant you can define via antProperty
    antProperty("testclasses.extensions", "training")
    antProperty("testclasses.suppress.junit.tenant", "true")
    
    //we can also call other ant targets by prefexing the target name with `y`
    //because the plugin defines a task rule (see below)
    dependsOn tasks.getByPath("ybuild")
}
```


### ~~`mpern.sap.commerce.build.tasks.SupportPortalDownload`~~

**Deprecated with v2.1.1; Removed with v3.0.0; Check the [FAQ](FAQ.md)**

## Task Rules

For convenience, the plugin also defines task rule that allows you to call any ant target directly from the Gradle
command line or from other tasks

### Hybris Ant Rule

Pattern: `y<target>`: Run hybris `ant <target>`

The rule maps the called task name to the ant target and preconfigures a `HybrisAntTask` to execute.

#### Task Ordering

**Warning** Gradle does not know the proper order for hybris ant targets. The plugin configures sane defaults for
`clean`, `build`, `all` and `production`, but for other targets you have to configure the proper order yourself.

For example in`build.gradle`:

````
tasks.named("ycustomtarget").configure{ mustRunAfter("yall") }
````

*While it is possible to import an ant build into Gradle to solve this issue, I decided against it as the hybris build
is very complex and slows down Gradle too much.*

#### Task Dependencies

All tasks generated by this rule have all items in `hybris.antTaskDependencies`
as [task dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/more_about_tasks.html#sec:adding_dependencies_to_tasks)
.

For more fine-grained control, you can define the task dependencies in your Gradle build script per task, e.g.

```gradle
tasks.named("yall").configure {
    dependsOn("bootstrapPlatform")
}
```
